- [Instructor] There's a lot of excitement
about the benefits GitOps can deliver.
At its core, GitOps is a pattern that has three parts.
First, store the desired state declaratively in Git,
then pull the state and apply it into the system
with an operator.
And finally, use a control loop to keep it all synced.
The excitement surrounding GitOps
has created many new ideas about where and how
this pattern can be applied in all sorts of situations.
If you're new to GitOps,
it can be confusing to navigate the hype
to figure out where GitOps is well-supported
and ready for immediate use.
So here, I've broken down some major system concerns
and we'll highlight where GitOps is most commonly applied
and has the most momentum.
The first area we'll look at is using a declarative
and automated approach
to manage your system's infrastructure.
Let's dive deeper there.
GitOps expects that you can rapidly provision infrastructure
and other resources.
Many organizations will turn to the cloud
for this capability,
using it to scale out and network
traditional compute resources
like virtual machines on-demand.
GitOps is more frequently used with a cloud native approach.
So typically, applications are packaged as container images
and the containers are run on a cluster
provided by an orchestrator like Kubernetes.
Teams use tools like Terraform to declaratively describe
and build their underlying cluster infrastructure
on the cloud.
The declarative description captures details
like the region to build the cluster,
how many nodes it should have,
and what class of node they should be.
Managing clusters is one area
that GitOps continues to advance.
There's some exciting new tools out there
that allow you to create and manage clusters at scale.
The workload or resources like our pods
that run on the cluster fall under our next GitOps use case.
It focuses on how we deploy
and manage containerized applications
on an orchestrator like Kubernetes.
Popular tools like Flux and ArgoCD fall into this area
and it's where GitOps currently has the most momentum.
That takes us to our final use case,
which covers how we handle releases or progressive delivery.
GitOps practices can be used to declaratively define
complex release strategies
like canaries or blue-green deployments.
These deployment techniques intelligently roll out
new versions of an application.
Tools like Flagger and Argo Rollouts fall into this space.
Here, you can see an example of a declarative configuration
that establishes a canary deployment for Flagger.
The canary is used to roll out a new version of the software
to a small subset of users
before it's made gradually more available on a wider scale
after it demonstrates that it's functioning properly.
Don't be surprised if you see the GitOps pattern pop up
in a tool or as a workflow
in part of a large enterprise platform.
It might look a little bit different everywhere you go,
but if you see operations driven through Git, that's GitOps.
Learn to recognize the pattern and you'll be fine
because at the end of the day, you're just working with Git.